---
layout: post
title: Just some thoughts 
published: true
---
## Perhaps this is too personal. Just some ramblings

Hey you, yeah you. I know you're reading. Can I just first say that it is crazy that we can communicate like this, a conversation where half takes place first in my mind and the other sometime later in yours. When you think about it that is something that is something quite intimate, but somehow you get used to it and it doesn't really seem personal. Well at least for me.  

That being said, there are certainly advantages to this. I have time and no pressure; the words come when they come and if I don't like the way they sound, I can quickly make a change. Then it is as if it has always been that way. I'm allowed to stop and think, something that enables me to be confident in the end result. These sentences were not the first setences that came to my mind. They are a result numerous thought revisions and corrections, yet this is not obviously evident. The end result is the best version. Well and by best version, I mean it's the version that my mind finally considers good enough.

Somewhere along the lines I lost my enthusiasm for learning things. For me there used to be excitement in everyday objects, my mind would see something and then try it's best to explain and understand it to itself. So much appreciation for the unknown, I belive that what I'm missing is perhaps best described by the word "wonder" or maybe a better word is "curiosity". I've lost my sense of wonder and therefore my sense of joy. The sky is not full of beautiful bright stars, but rather of extremely hot balls of plasma fueled by a process scientists call Nuculear fusion. It used to be that I would see the word Fusion and think "Wow isn't that neat, I don't understand how that works and that it's really fascinating and exciting." Then I would do research and what I found would instantly bring me joy, the happiness was simply in knowing and the bit of understanding. But now even the most exciting and interesting things can be explained away by logic and a negative perception. A plane flying is fascinating, an engine making power via thousands and thousands of small rhythmic contained explosions is marvelous. This is why I sometimes wish I lived in the past. Things were simpler then, some things just weren't explainable and almost everyone accepted that. There was no way to "Google" a question and instantly be explained by the top expert in the field on their theory on what gravity is and how it, along with the change in velocity of some object's nmass, causes that object to have something that we call weight. The past was a time of wonder and hope. When I was younger, I had a ravenous appetite for information. At the time, books were the way I'd get my fix. Some kind of satisifaction in somewhat understanding something that I was clueless about before. But now, for some reason, I'm just overwhelmed by all the things I do not know and frustrated when I can't immediately understand something. The world can make me feel really small and insignficant. Like no matter how good I get at something there will always be someone better. And I can see this person with superior skill with a few button presses. Somehow this broke me. I'm not special, I will never be special. I know that now, but it was certianly better before. Some say that ignorance itself is bliss, but I believe that for me happiness is embracing my own ignorance and deep down aknowledging inferiority and accepting myself the way I am. Maye I can't explain gravatational fields, but I can make pretty damn good scrambled eggs and why can't that be enough? :P 



  *I know I sometimes use what little I know to come accross smarter than I really am. That is a product of my arrogance and inner-need to know everything and never admit my own mistakes. But it is also a result of my restless mind. A deep excitement and desire to share what little I know and see another person's eyes light up when they understand. It may not quite make me happy anymore, but maybe I can inspire others.  Not that that is an excuse, I'm not trying to jusitfy my behavior.
  I do apologize for my arrogance.
  But I must also ask myself why do I explain away everyone else's wrong doings and mistakes, but not my own? I think i may expect way more from myself than others. Maybe I make sure my goals are unachieveable so when I fail I can tell myself I never had a chance and that I didn't really try.*
