---
layout: post
title: Open Letter
published: true

---
Dear All,
First I want to offer you all an apology. I have been hiding something from everyone in my life. I have known about my migraines since I was about 12. They began several years before and it took the doctors quite a long time to pin it down. Migraines are especially difficult to diagnose in children because symptoms are generally quite different from those with adult migraines. Mine started as stomach aches and progressed to the current chronic headaches I have today. Well, calling them headaches does not quite do them justice, but I digress. I'll get to that issue later. My parents were extremely concerned, as I imagine most parents would be. It was quite difficult for me to witness the emotional toll my condition had on my family. Over time I became angry and frustrated. It was not fair, I did not choose to be this way. I wanted so badly to be healthy and normal like all the others kids. I am not exactly sure when it started, but at some point I began faking my emotions. It felt good to be treated normally. At first the whole charade was rather exhausting, but over time it became natural, almost as if it were in my second nature. I saw my condition as a choice, one I could choose by sheer will power to ignore. Occasionally I would slip up, but I learned to downplay my symptoms and attribute them to something else. Something temporary that would pass. A cold, bad sleep,or perhaps I was  tired from staying up too late. Looking back at now, it is clear I was lying to myself just as much as I was lying to those around me. The strange thing is the more you repeat something the more you yourself are able believe it to be true. I became so good at hiding my symptoms my parents began asking me if I was still getting migraines. Perhaps I told them the truth the first few times, but at some point I wanted it so badly to be true that I began saying no, not really. Until just very recently my parents believed I grew out of my migraines entirely. Doctors had told them that this was a possibility and I imagine that this had given them hope. While it is true that the frequency of my migraines did change throughout the years, almost all but disappearing at some points; they never really completely went away. Germany was a chance for me to live an independent life, an opportunity to see if this condition would really stand in my way. Unfortunately the stress of a global move combined with the stress of my overload of engineering courses caused my migraines to become much more frequent. Not such a big surprise as stress is purportedly the most common trigger. Migraines can be somewhat of a self-fulfilling loop. 

**Stress** => **Migraines** => **Loss of Productivity** => **More stress**, ad infinitum. 
This loop can be quite hard to get out of. One of the worst parts about migraines is always being unsure of what will trigger the next one. This goes hand-in-hand with anxiety and in my opinion very well may explain why migraines and anxiety are often found to be comorbid. And like some sort of sick joke, the anxiety that comes with the fear of causing a migraine is very much itself capable of causing a migraine all on its own. A self-fulfilling prophecy of anxiety and pain. It is not that I do not realize how irrational this sounds, its irrationality is what makes it all the more frustrating. I am a slave to the fear and pain. 
Migraines for me are generally a multi-day affair. Usually for me the process begins with some sort of aura. This process begins with slightly blurred vision in one of my eyes, typically the right eye; for me this is commonly the first indication of an oncoming migraine, but aura experiences are unique to each individual. Neck, jaw, and ear pain are also quite common for me during my aura phase. Fatigue and mental confusion are also often present symptoms. This phase usually does not last long and is almost always immediately proceeded with the onset of the headache phase. The pain is pulsing and begins rather dull before gradually ramping up. It can become quite severe. Almost as if someone is drilling into your head. My nervous system goes into overdrive and I become sensitive to all kinds of stimulation. Lights are too bright, sounds are too loud, and even smells can be overwhelming. This is why most migraine sufferers prefer to retreat to a quiet dark room; something that is very gentle on the senses. Migraines make sleep difficult for me. The pain often keeps me awake and when I am able to the pain can wake me backup. The phase after the "headache" phase is known as the postdrome. Migraines themselves are an exhausting ideal and the interruption of sleep schedules confounds the issue of exhaustion even more so. This can also be a bit of a loop as a lack of sleep can itself trigger a migraine. Are you noticing a pattern? Anyway, that is what has been on my mind lately. I am currently seeing a neurologist who specializes in migraines. She seems confident in her ability to reduce both the severity and frequency of my migraines. I remain skeptical, but hopeful.

