---

layout:post
title: Entry 2
published:true
---
## A New Post

So after talking to my brother we came upon the topic of wrist pain resulting most likely from our heavy cellphone use. Something we both suffer from, and also not insignificantly something we most often do not notice. I've read that some people only notices their pain when they are high, this is because marijuana is not selective in it's action; it heightens all sensations for better or for worse. In doing so it inhibits our brains subconscious ability to filter out uneventful or insignificant information. When stimulus is both constant and inconsequential the brain is usually able to ignore whatever sensation may result. This is most likely because a biological response is not deemed immediately necessary. Now it is easy to dismiss this filtering as a non-issue, afterall what does it matter so long as no physical damage is being done. However I propose that this filtering has a neurological cost. I believe this to be the case based on my experiences with migraine headache disorder. Like the vastly more insignificant wrist pain I am unconsciously somewhat able to filter out the pain that radiates from my neck and head when I'm experiencing an "episode".  But the fatigue and state of mental taxation remains. It is not so much the pain that I cannot deal with, but rather this exhaustion and brain foggedness that is for me the most frustrating. I notice that I am not operating at 100% of my usual capability and at the same time I recognize there is little I can do about it. Pain can almost always simply be ignored, but diminished cognition is less easily dealt with. When I'm migrainous I notice a decline in my verbal and written communication skills as well as a decline in my fine motor skills. I become a worse driver, a worse speaker, a worse listener. As previously stated my mental abilities take a hit as well. Memory, mathematical reasoning, logic all require much more effort to utilize. A mathematical concept that may only take me 20 mins to understand when I'm thinking "normally" can suddenly seem impossible for me to grasp even after hours of effort. 
