---
layout: post
title: Chronicles of a Migraineur
published: True
---
##Entry 1

Surprisingly the pain free "good" days are often the hardest things for me when it comes to my migraine headache disorder. Or rather, more specifically, it is the return of the headaches that is often most difficult to deal with. The migraine free days show me what life is like without the constant pain; each time there is hope that the headaches don't return. And yet they always do...  Oddly enough on those few select days it feels as if something is missing. It seems having a headache has become my new "normal." 
Most recently I have been trying to identify and eliminate any potential triggers*. Generally, each migraineur's list of triggers is unique. These lists can be quite extensive and can include things such as stress, alcohol, or even weather. As you can imagine this makes narrowing down my specific triggers a lengthy and complex process. Life is sadly not as simple as a science experiment, where one can simply change a single variable and measure the result. Am I maybe dehydrated, vitamin deficient, sleep deprived or was it simply the change in atmospheric pressure, are all questions I ask myself on near daily basis. When I sense an oncoming headache, I tend to take the shotgun approach in an attempt to minimize the severity. Usually I will eat, drink water and consume caffeine, generally these steps provide only minimal relief at best. 
 
* *Due to the associations and stigma, I'm not a fan of this word*
